2.0-beta.7 - 20 May 2013
========================


New features:
-------------

* **Save searches** for a hashtag or keyword on Twitter. See daily search result totals in your insights stream, and
  search within results from the search box.
* **Get notified** by your browser when new insights are available (you must enable browser notifications and have your 
  browser tab open, supported in Chrome, Firefox, Safari).
* See **insights in your crawler RSS feed**.


Developer improvements:
-----------------------

* **New Insights API** exposes insights stream as JSON (available for use by things like the alpha ThinkUp Chrome extension
  - https://github.com/ginatrapani/ThinkUp-Notifier-for-Chrome).
* makeplugin script upgrade generates stubs for latest data input source plugin architecture.
* Easily build **instance-specific configuration panels** in plugin settings area.
* **Test suite upgrades** enable it to pass when non-core plugins are installed.


Bugfixes:
---------

* Fix incorrect plural wording in All About You insight.
* Fix Foursquare authorization error on installations using non-standard port.
* Fix bug when searching for duplicate terms.
* Correct List Membership insight miscount.
* Avoid PHP Notice of Undefined indexes.
* Reset password token when password has been changed.
* Allow owner password field to contain special chars (not only letter and numbers).
* Prevent multiple ThinkUp account activations.
* Standardize password validation frontend across registration and change password screens.
* During installation, remove SimpleXML check, require ZipArchive.
* Fix application URL in account activation email for on installations with uppercase characters in the folder name.
* Remove pause/start crawling buttons for non-admin users.
* Fix broken username link in Twitter plugin settings.
* Redesign documentation.
* Clean up and streamline code.

