2.0-beta.9 - 26 Dec 2013
========================

New YouTube plugin:
-------------------

Connect your YouTube account to ThinkUp to get insights on your activity, including:

* Videos with the most likes and views
* How many minutes users watched your videos
* The videos viewers watched longer on average
* Changes to your channel subscriber count
* Video likes versus dislikes


New insights:
-------------
* New verified followers: Find out when a verified user follows you.
* Fave/like/+1 spikes and highs: See when a post gets an unusually high number of likes.
* Metweets: Keep track of how often you talk about yourself.
* Interaction Graph: See who you talked to the most each week.
* Weekly Bests: See your best posts of the week.
* Reply Spike: See posts that received an usually high number of comments or replies.
* Response Time: Know how fast your posts get replies or likes.
* Favorited Links: See what posts you've liked which contained links.
* Long-lost Contacts: Keep track of the contact you haven't talked to in over a year.
* Link Prompt: Don't forget to post interesting links.
* Local Followers: See when new followers are located where you are.
* Outreach Punchcard: See what times of day your posts get responses.

New features:
-------------
* Opt into daily and/or weekly insight email notifications. In Settings -> Account, choose Daily, Weekly, or No Email
  under Notification Frequency.
* If your server cannot send email, ThinkUp can now send email via Mandrill.
  (https://www.thinkup.com/docs/install/advancedconfig.html)
* Format your insight email notifications with a custom HTML Mandrill template.
  (https://www.thinkup.com/docs/userguide/settings/plugins/insightsgenerator.html)
* Retrieve saved search posts via ThinkUp's API. (https://www.thinkup.com/docs/userguide/api/posts/keyword_posts.html)

Enhancements:
-------------
* See what days which insights appear in Settings > Plugins > Insights Generator. 
  (http://blog.thinkup.com/post/57456822638/what-kind-of-insights-will-thinkup-give-you-when)
* Get improved insight copy with localized terms by service (i.e., status update vs tweet versus post).
* Expand URLs plugin: Get the title and description of each link on expansion.

Bugfixes:
---------
* Correctly capture tweets and mentions by since_id versus page.
* Correctly capture Facebook comments using updated API pagination.
* Correctly capture Facebook post likes using Oct 2013 updated API.
* Correctly display Foursquare checkin photos.
* Gracefully handle capturing Twitter followers who are 403 "not found" (i.e., deactivated/suspended).
* Avoid "Data too long for column" error while expanding links.
* Update Foursquare and Facebook connection instructions.
* Fix broken saved search links in Twitter configuration.
* Resolved several PHP warnings and notices.
* Fixed typos and grammatical errors in insights and documentation.